this list.
So we're gonna be looking at forms and input groups with bootstrap classes and almost every
website.
You're going to need some type of form,
some type of input for users to add information.
And bootstrap provides a nice way to output that content to present it to the user so you
can do everything you can with HTML.
Typically,
HTML forms,
and there's the bootstrap styling that goes along with it.
So makes a form inputs more readable,
where it's got the border around it and some nice styling.
You can also update kind of have that read on Lee Effect for the text on the input fields
and disable the input of the field.
There's the password field,
so these are all just typical what you would see within HTML.
There's also the check boxes and Reto bought buttons.
We saw just different ways to present the radio buttons earlier when we were looking at the
button groups.
That was a nice way that we can style the radio buttons,
and then overall,
it's just trying to keep everything within the same structure.
So here's something where you might typically have for a user to sign in and some
information,
and this is done within the grid structure.
So it's done within the form roll and then using the same columns that we had.
So 12 column structure in using six and six and then this one is just a full column
structure,
and this again is using the full column,
so there's no indication that we're breaking any of the rose.
It's just taken the whole form group that's available for it.
There's also ways to do the horizontal form,
so this is again using the bootstrap grid structure,
and we're applying the classes accordingly to make the grid structure and having the labels
on the left hand side.
So they're taking up two columns and whereas the input is taking up 10 and this is gonna
break on S M.
So it will stock on the really small screens that you don't wanna have too much space taken
up with the label,
and you might want to have the email or the label on top of the input field.
That's what those ones are.
The options.
There's also how to have big labeling column auto sizing,
and there's really a time of stuff that you can do with forms with input groups gives you
the option to combine content together as an input group,
so they allow you to have texts.
Button boot button groups and on either side have these textual inputs.
So that's what you see here,
where it's an input group,
so it's an input,
but it's got some text that's attached to it,
so it looks like it's still within the one input.
But the text is attached in this kind of agree area,
and that's where we've got the input group.
I see.
Create an input group and pretend it and add in whatever text you want.
Textual content.
You want characters and then have the whole input,
and that way it will display it this nice and neatly within the one element.
There's also the different sizing and multiple inputs and everything really have sizing.
There's button add ons and button drop downs.
We did look a button and drop downs in the last one,
so there's that drop down menu that we saw last time and then the input fields having these
input groups.
This one has pretended content,
but it's also got upended content to the group.
So let's at the end.
So pre penned is at the start happened.
Is that the end?
You can use both.
You can have multiple items appended as well.
So see and build out a typical billing form that you might have on your website.
So we're gonna do it using the bootstrap grid structure and start with the main container.
Let's create the form,
and that's just gonna be inside the main container.
And then within here we're gonna use variations of Rose.
You also have an option for the former role for the grid.
And the difference is that the standard grid overrides the default column.
Gunners on git provides a little bit of a tighter output and more compact Leo.
It's and that's the form role class.
So they can you be used interchangeably.
So setting up a div and giving it a class of roe and also show you what the difference
between the form role is gonna be.
And that means that we've got class off,
call him and then within the column.
This is where we can start adding the inputs.
We also want toe probably have a title for our input for and I'll give this one a class of
display.
Dash three.
That's nice and big,
and we'll call it building in full.
And within this role,
I will ask the users name,
So give you a label and we'll call it for name.
So I just asked for the user's name.
It could be also first name or last name,
so we'll call it F name.
So the first name of the user and we'll do the same one for the last name.
So creating an input type is gonna be text class is form control.
And that adds the bootstrap styling to the form I D.
Is gonna just be f name.
So the first name and then will do one l name for the last name,
and that's gonna break on the medium science.
And I try that with the last name as,
well,
an update.
Now when we shrink it down,
we'll see that it's stacks once it gets to the smaller screens.
And that's probably what ideally,
what we want,
because we don't want to cram too many columns because this is important for the user to be
able to fill out this information.
There's also the form role and also do one for the road so you could see that there is a
slight difference in some of the spacing is not a whole lot just a little bit of difference
between the row in the formal as it in dense and creates additional gutter columns.
So it depends on which one you want to use.
We can use the form role and they are also interchangeable and they work the same way.
So the concept is always going to be the same.
So next one,
we might want just full with where we're asking for a user name and this is gonna be
another input.
And we also have a label for this one.
So just copy that from the above.
And this is the user name and type text and also update the I D to be user name.
And we'll do this one as an input groups so that we have something different and will
provide a div to wrap around it and a class of input group and make sure that the input is
inside of this parent container.
And then whatever you want to pre penned,
attach the input group pre penned class,
and this will pretend the contents in front of the input field.
And we're going to just do the at symbol and add in a span with a class of input.
Group text was This is a text item that were adding in the input group and that should
actually be class.
So that adds that symbol inside of the input group.
Also,
let's add in our check out button so I could be at the very bottom and this will be class B
TN BT end.
So have a green button en btm,
LG and B T en bloc.
So it goes all the way across so their users can't miss the Spartan,
and this will be to submit the information also to make it look nice.
You'll often find the horizontal rule and then some classes attached to it and a lot in a
margin bottom of five for the HR and also going to do that under the billing information
and let's do one more group of inputs.
This could be a world because we have multiple inputs,
will have some drop downs here and give this one a class of column M d and we'll do five
and then add in the label and four.
So maybe this could be for country and then select drop down class and these ones have a
class of custom.
Select.
And then we might have some options to choose various countries in the drop down.
And let's do another drop down,
and this one will do the state,
and we'll update the select information to be state.
So again,
it's still custom Select,
and the I d is state and the i d for this one is gonna be country,
so that matches the label.
And then,
lastly,
we might have another input field for the zip code.
So around that up and close that off that three and apply a label to that four zip,
and that's gonna require the ZIP code.
And this is just a regular input.
And in order to get the bootstrap styling,
don't forget.
We need to add the class of form control in order to get the styling on the input,
and that's going to make it the same size as the drop downs as the other inputs.
And some of these you might want to add some padding the margin top for so there's some
spacing between it.
It's all depends on how you want to customize and when you shrink it down,
whenever you're building the form,
I always do suggest that you try it on the different side screens just to make sure that
the form of stacking as you intended to be.